You, you tend to cry like you
haven't cried in forever, cause
it probably has been forever.
And so I'll just, I'll just
want to share just a little bit
one, thank you to everybody.
That was a part of that.
And I know if your spouses are
back in the back, I'll make sure
and try to tell them as well.
I know some of you didn't even get
a chance to be on the video, but I
know how much you care for us and
how much you love and support us.
Um, and just know this in
order for us to do what we do.
And we wouldn't be who
we are without you guys.
And I appreciate that.
I mean, that's the thing that I think
about is we are who we are because of
the team that got us placed around us.
And so thank you guys for
supporting us and loving us.
Um, and, uh, yeah, like it's, it's
those moments like today where it
comes in reality that how hard it is,
um, And what we've done for two years.
And I think at times you just
keep going, you know, you just put
your head down, you keep going.
And today's a day to just reflect
and realize that God has placed some
amazing people around us and, um, an
amazing community that we love, uh,
and we're excited to continue to,
to grow and, and things like that.
So just super pumped and
thankful, um, for today.
So I'm going to try to keep
it together as we jump into.
Uh, the book of Jonah.
And so we're going to be
in Jonah chapter three.
Um, we have been walking through the
book of Jonah for several weeks now.
Um, and we are hitting, uh, an
interesting, what I would say
interesting part of Jonah heading
into the end of Jonah, but in Jonah
chapter three, there's a couple of
things that we've been seeing recently.
And last week we talked
about this and we're going to
continue this theme, which is.
When we, when we get into the
word of God, it's so important.
And my wife reminds me
of this, of all the time.
She says, honey, what
does the word say about.
What does the word say about God?
Because the first thing, and again,
you're going to hear application today.
We're going to ask the question,
what does this mean to me?
Right.
Like, how does this apply to me?
How do I apply to my life?
But it's so important to ask the
question, what does it say about God?
And so last week we started this,
really, this, this, what I would
call two weeks of this thought that
God is a God of second chances.
And we actually sang a little bit about it
today is this idea that God, doesn't say
you get one chance to live the right life.
Or it's over?
No, he's consistently saying, Hey, you
know, I know you're going to mess up.
And when you do.
To give you grace when you recognize
your sin, repent and turn from it.
And so we see in this picture, we saw
this last week, um, there, there was
three people that we talked about, right.
That God gives a second
chance to in this text.
And really it's the third one he
doesn't necessarily speak to, but
we recognize the first one was
he gave Jonah a second chance.
Um, he gave Jonah a second chance, which
means this rather than just killing
off Jonah and moving on from him.
He decides to bring trials and
storms into his life to bring
them to a point of repentance,
to use him for his will, right?
To go and share the gospel
to the people of Nineveh.
He gave a second chance to the people
of Nineveh who were living a life that
were, was not honoring to God at all.
And he, God said, you know what?
I'm not going to just destroy you.
I'm going to send somebody to give
you an opportunity a second chance,
but in that picture and the more
that you study, God's word, it's this
picture that God ultimately gives us.
Uh, second chance.
So we're going to extend that theme
a little bit, but we're going to
see today this transition, and I'm
going to read the whole text at home.
I'm gonna read all of chapter
three, so we make sure we get
the whole context with this.
If you weren't here last week,
but we're gonna see today
how a king, a leader model.
What true repentance is and what
that means for us specifically.
But I wanna start off with this question.
Has there any, oh, I want to ask
specifically how many of you have
had a role model in your life?
Someone you looked up to.
Okay.
I want at least two people to tell me
who that is and why you looked up to
him to people who was your role model.
Why'd you look up to him?
What was important?
Okay.
That's good.
That's great.
Awesome.
One more person.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Yeah, absolutely.
Thank you for sharing.
Um, when we think you guys are thinking
of that person right now, right?
When we think about a person that we see
as a role model, let me give you mine.
Mine is my grandpa.
My Papa's what I would use to
call him my Papa passed away.
Um, and I need to not be emotional
today after that, but, um, about
three years ago and he made a
significant impact in my life.
I wouldn't be the person I am today.
And I think about this the way
that my Papa loved his grandkids.
Taught me how to love my kids,
but more importantly, what I
want to be to my grandkids.
See my Papa was one of my
role models in my life.
And was he perfect?
No, and I think most of us
would say this our role models.
Aren't perfect, but there's somebody
in which we would say, Hey, we
look to as an example in this area.
And so let me just explain a
role model is a person looked on
by others as an example to him.
Right.
And so if I want to just get
straight to it, ultimately our
greatest role model is Jesus himself.
Right?
And we're going to continue to say
that, look to Jesus as your role model.
But today, when we jump into this
text, we're going to see how the king,
the king of Nineveh was a role model
and what true bins look like right.
To his people, to Jonah,
and ultimately to us.
And so as we saw this last week,
right, this second chance that that
God gave Jonah, um, we continue to
see that again, in this text, we
realized that the, in response to
Jonah getting a second chance, what
did he do when he responded correctly?
So we looked at chapter one of Jonah.
It says that Jonah says the
word of the Lord came to Jonah
and Jonah got up and ran.
Last week, we talked about the word
of the Lord, came to Jonah a second
time and Jonah got up and went.
So Jonah responded correctly
with his second chance.
And I think about us right?
When God gives you a second,
third, fourth, or hundredth chance,
are we responding correctly?
Right?
Are we responding correctly?
So God used Jonah's message right.
To lead these people to repentance.
Um, and we, we just learned this
idea and I think this is important
for us as we kind of jump into
this text when we fail or when we
make a big mistake and sin, right.
When we sin against God, God is
ready and willing to forgive us.
So you're never too broken.
You're never too far
from God to be forgiven.
And I'm telling you guys, if you're
anything like me, we beat ourselves up.
We beat ourselves up.
We, we look at ourselves as
though, you know, I'm just too bad.
I've not done.
I've I've done too much.
And the Lord says no repentance.
If you will truly understand your sin and
turn from it, he has graciously ready to
forgive every single one of your songs.
So when we pick up in this
story, we'll see again, a little
bit more of this, this idea.
So let's read, so we can just jump in.
Let's read this starting in verse one of
chapter, three of Jonah, and we'll see,
um, kind of how it all comes together.
And it says the word of the Lord
came to Jonah a second time, get up,
go to the great city of Indiana and
preach the message that I tell you.
And so Jonah got up and went to Nineveh,
according to the Lord's command.
Now Nineveh was an extremely great city.
A three day walk Jonah set out
on the first day of his walk in
the city and proclaimed in 40
days, Nineveh will be demolished.
Then the people of Nineveh believed
God, they proclaimed a fast and
dressed in sackcloth and from
the greatest of them to the.
And when the word reached the king
of Nineveh, he got up from his
throne, took off of his Royal robe,
put on sackcloth and sat in ashes.
And then he issued a decree in
Nineveh by order of the king and
his Nobles, no person or animal or
herd or flock is to taste anything.
They must not eat or drink water.
Furthermore, both people and animals
must be covered with sackcloth and
everyone must call out earnestly to God.
Each one must turn from his evil
ways and from his wrongdoings, who
knows maybe God will turn and relent.
He may turn from his burning
anger so that we will not pay.
And so God saw their actions that
they had turned from their evil ways.
And so God relented from the
disaster, he had threatened
with him and he did not do it.
So let's pray before we
continue on Lord Jesus.
We just pray that you open our
hearts and minds, Lord to this word.
May you speak directly to each one
of us Lord, because you know, there's
a message and a word for each of us.
We pray this in your heavenly name.
So here's what we know.
And I think maybe you guys know this.
If you've ever followed a leader,
the leader sets the example.
If the leader models, it it's easier.
When the leader tells
you, Hey, go do this.
Right.
It's not.
And I was thinking about this.
I don't know if you've ever
heard your parents said this.
Hey, do what I say, not what I do.
And we would be like, that's not.
Right.
So we see here, this leader,
this king setting an example.
And so I want to address.
The thing that you'll say,
Hey, what about verse five?
The people started repenting
before the leader led out in this.
Well, we do want to find, I'm
not going to jump too far ahead
because we're going to cover it all.
Is you see that he makes
a decree that everyone.
So what he did was yes, people started
doing this without his example, but
once he set the example and then made
the decree, everyone followed suit.
And how do we know if
everyone followed suit?
Because the Lord saw
their actions and really.
And so the leader in
this, this is important.
So we're gonna start with this as
the king sets the example, right?
And so it says the word
reached the king, right?
The word, the message.
And we look back at this message
and I want to kind of affirm.
This message is so short it's in 40
days, Nineveh will be demolished.
And we talked about this a little bit
on our Wednesday night inspire group.
If you're not a part of an inspire
group, you should be on Wednesday nights.
We have two inspire groups,
one that meets here at six 30
and one that meets a middle to.
At six 30.
So if you're interested in being a part of
inspire group, which is basically a small
group, we take the texts that we preach on
Sundays, and we just go through it deeper.
We apply it to our lives.
So I'd encourage you to be a part of that.
But what we talked about on
Wednesday was this idea of many
times we criticize Nineveh or not.
None of us, excuse me, Jonah, for
the short message, it was horrible.
He could have given more clarity, but
what we see here is it says that he
preached the word that the Lord gave him.
So maybe that was the word
that the Lord gave him.
So in that short message
that the king heard, right.
He responded to, he responded to it.
And so it's interesting
when we think about this.
So we're going to kind of walk through
what, what happened to the king.
It says when the word reached the
king of Nineveh, he got up from
his throne and took off his role.
So he gave up everything.
He felt like he was entitled to.
So think about a king, a king, as
someone who sits on a throne, which
shows his position and his authority,
his robe shows his royalty, right.
And his understanding of
everything, he, him, his has a mass.
He gave it all up in humility.
He gave it all up in humility to say, Hey,
I recognize that whatever I have in my
possession means nothing to me in this.
I'm recognizing those
things are worthless to me.
And so I started thinking
about what is humility?
What is humility?
It's the modest or low view
of one's own importance.
And so I've said this several times
before and other messages, but
it's not thinking less of yourself.
It's thinking about yourself less.
It's not about you anymore.
And this moment for the king, it
wasn't about his position or all that
he had and all these 120,000 people.
And so by I can correct myself on this.
I kept saying 600,000
last couple of weeks.
I'm not sure where I got that number.
It's really about 120,000.
And it actually says
that later on in Jonah.
So see pastors make mistakes too.
It's okay.
But he had the ability to sit
there and say, no, I'm a king.
I have a high position.
I have high authority.
I don't have to listen to God.
I'm just going to tell God to shove it.
He did.
He took off the things, which would
recognize him as important and higher.
And he made himself low.
He made himself low.
So I've got a question.
Any of you ever felt entitled
to have something to thank some
way anybody ever felt entitled?
Maybe you don't wanna admit it.
That's CSR asking questions sometimes
that nobody wants to raise their
hand on, but inside they know,
Hey there's times I felt in titled
there's times where I felt justified.
I don't know what it is.
You know what it is.
But I wouldn't want you to look at this.
King is setting an example.
There's some things in our lives
that we may think we're entitled
to, but are not beneficial.
And our calling that God has for us,
they get in the way of the position
that God is calling us to be.
The king could have allowed his
authority, his position, his throne,
to get in the way of his repentance.
And he didn't, he didn't.
So let me, let me mention
just a few things, right?
So it could be a relationship
that you think you're entitled.
But God's saying, Hey, that's
not beneficial for you.
And the call that I have to
you, it could be luxuries.
It could be desires.
It could be just like this
king of position, right.
These things hinder our walks.
And so this is what the word says.
I'm going to give you a couple of verses
to kind of affirm this Hebrews 12.
One says this, therefore, since we
all have such a large cloud of large
cloud of witnesses surrounding us,
let us lay aside every hindrance.
And sin that so easily ensnares
us and let us run with endurance,
the race that lies before us.
So the scripture is telling us there are
things which we feel entitled to that are
withholding us from experiencing the full
blessing of God, the full call of God.
And for many of us just like this
king, it's the sin in our lives.
It's the things that just
aren't beneficial for us.
Maybe that are distracting
us from what God has for us.
I guess I just, I think
about this story so much.
God could have used anybody to reach
Nineveh, anybody to reach Nineveh.
He chose to use Jonah and Jonah said no,
but God said, no, I'm stubborn enough.
I'm going to use you.
Why?
Because God valued Jonah,
an individual, one person.
When he cause he used
anybody in the world.
Think about that with.
Maybe you're sitting there
going, God can use somebody else.
You know, I'm just, I'm an entitled.
This I'm a Christian.
And let me just do that.
I'm a Christian, I'm a believer.
I don't deny that, but I'm not
going to give God that this area
of my life, I'm not going to
let God have I'm entitled to it.
Somebody else would do it.
And God's like, no, you, I want you.
I want 100% of you.
I want all of you.
I want that area of your life.
That is hindering you from the
call that he has on your life.
Maybe it's your.
I don't know what it is, cause
I'm not here to have you admit
it to me and me cover it for you.
Cause that's not me.
I'm here to communicate God's word and God
covers the sin in our life that we begin
to address and recognize as hindrance.
Let's look at first
Corinthians 10 23 through 24.
It says this, everything.
This is Paul speaking.
Everything is permissible, but
not everything is beneficial.
Everything is permissible
and not everything builds up.
No one is to seek his own good,
but the good of the other.
So what's the point here?
What are we trying to make here?
Is this king took up everything that
he felt that he was entitled to have in
his position in order to humble himself
and recognize his need for repentance.
He did not let anything hold him back.
Cause there's times I'm just going
to be right out there with you.
There's times there's days where I know
the Lord is telling me this isn't value
before you and I do what Jonah did.
And chapter one, I turned
the other way and I.
Now it is valuable for me.
And you know, what the Lord does.
He brings about conviction.
See a relationship with Jesus.
If you want to know you have one
conviction is present in your life.
Conviction is this inner being that
says, Hey, this is not good for you,
but let me just tell you this, the
further you get away from a personal
relationship with Jesus, the more
that becomes lighter and lighter.
Where, what does the Lord say?
It says it in Romans that
he gave them over to them.
What's this means is, Hey, your
consequences are going to come up from,
and that's what he did to Jonah here.
His consequences of, of the being
thrown off the ship and obviously eaten
by the big fish, which was not fun.
Right.
He allowed those to draw
them, him to repentance.
So.
That's where we want to see this as that.
A lot of times it's our pride
that gets in the way, right.
We feel entitled.
We spend so much time
justifying ourselves before God.
And all he wants us to do is
humble ourselves and admit our
sins and recognize our need for.
So, this is the important part.
He does not just take
off something, right?
His, he doesn't step down from
his throne and take off his ropes.
He puts on a couple of things.
So what does he put on?
We see here, it says that he, um, he
put on sackcloth and he sat in ashes.
And I don't know about you
guys, but that's not probably a
good style to wear these days.
You might stick out.
And so, you know, for a king to
do this shows complete and utter humility.
To put on sackcloth.
So what sackcloth, why
did they put on sackcloth?
So sack cloth is a coarsely woven fabric,
usually made of goat's hair and ashes.
That's simple enough, right?
Fire ashes.
He puts it on his head.
So I want to ask you guys this question.
Why did, and if you know
this, this is great.
I want us all to talk about it.
Why would the king put
on sackcloth and ashes?
What is this a sign of?
Remorse.
Humility.
What else is there anything
else you can think of?
Those are right by the way.
Repentance.
Yeah, absolutely.
So when we think about those things,
right, we look at this, this way is it's,
this is a display in the flesh, what was
happening in their heart or their soul.
It was a display outwardly
of what inwardly
they were recognizing. That they were
broken, that they were in shambles.
That they were dirty.
When we talk about sin
lotta times, we're dirty.
We're, we know that we're in the
wrong. They were recognizing that
outwardly what was happening inwardly.
And here's what I know when, when,
when, when you have that there, people
ask questions and you begin to say,
Hey, you know, I'm just being honest.
And here, here's what we know.
Guys is essential.
That is confessed to God
is, is 100% forgiven.
But at times with our sin, in
order to overcome it, we need
to confess it to a friend.
We need to confess it to somebody who
can walk with us to hold us accountable.
And just so you know, it's not
like I'm saying, Hey, at the end of
service today, everybody's going to
stand up on the line, get a mic and
confess your sins to each other.
You know, if you want to do that great.
But I, and I'm, I'm, I'm encouraging
you to say, Hey, we can't let our
sin be something that is hidden.
It needs to be something that is
publicly or not publicly, but it
needs to be out of just, not just
you, but with someone else that can
say, Hey, they're not sitting there
judging you, but they're sitting there
saying, Hey, can I walk with you?
Can I hold you accountable?
Can I help you in this?
Guys, that's when we begin to overcome it.
Um, and this is what we see with
this outward display, right?
So it's a picture of someone
who's truly broken over their sin.
And so the king, and this is important.
The king didn't just want to say
a prayer under his breath and say,
Lord, forgive us for all of our
sins, but he wanted to make it public.
And he knew that the way
he was living was not.
Right.
And so some of us need to follow
through with maybe what that is.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
It's a great picture.
Right.
Yeah, but see, this is this,
that's a great picture, right?
We have one king Pharaoh
hardened heart, right.
And we can get into that another day,
but hardened heart, he didn't do this.
He wasn't humble.
And at times he faked it, but
really he never was humble.
And we see another king that could
have done just what Pharaoh did, but he
didn't. Why? I would say this, God desires
this is what it says in his word,
God desires
that everyone be saved and come
to a relationship with Him.
Everyone.
But he won't force you.
That's our part.
We have to choose to recognize
our sin, just like this king did
and lay it all out there.
Be open and honest and say, I
surrender. Lord, use me. Allow me
to be forgiven and that was the thing.
He did this and we're not
even getting there yet.
He did this before he even
knew God would forgive him.
I mean, if you, if you didn't know,
God was going to forgive you for
some of you may say I'm going
to live it up for the next X
amount of days until he destroys us.
But he didn't.
And it's interesting.
And so here's something I just want
to mention when I think offhand as
well as some of us, when we think
about our faith in Jesus, we talk
about being public with our sin.
Basically confessing it to someone.
I would say this another way to
publicly confess your faith in
Jesus, that some of us may have
not taken the next step in is baptism.
And I just want to mention that
because I think sometimes we
miss the importance of baptism.
It's not a security of
salvation with baptism,
but it is a public profession
of Jesus that if you're refusing to
be baptized after giving your life to
Jesus, it's saying there's something
in you that wants to hide that.
And so that's just encouragement to you
to say, Hey, maybe that's your next step.
Maybe it's just publicly declaring through
baptism your relationship with Jesus.
Maybe that's what's
hindering you in your walk.
Um, and I think that this, this
kind of points to that is saying,
Hey, that could be an area.
So not only does the king set the
example, here's what the king does.
He makes a decree.
And so let's go back to this idea that
the leader sets, sets the standard.
And again, this is the
ways I think of scripture.
And so, you know, and I try to teach
you guys this, I opened the word
and I began to explore the word
and say, okay, Um, and I'm learning
this more and more me and Brock we.
We just recently went to a preaching
conference to learn a little bit
more on how to study the word.
And it's this idea of who is, is the text
talking about? What's the key theme, right?
Where, where are they?
Things like that.
Right.
And so whenever I study the Bible, I think
more and more like what's going on here.
And this is what stuck out to
me is this king who set this
example. And so, great leaders.
Yes.
They set the example, but I
think it's so important that
they don't only model the change,
by coming down from his throne, taking off
his robes and putting on the sackcloth
and ashes, but they challenge people
that they are over to do the same thing.
Guys, leaders every day can live
the model life and though affect few.
But leaders who not only model it, but
challenge people that they serve with
to live the life that God's called
them will affect  thousands and
thousands and thousands of people.
Right.
So we see this king set the standard.
So I'm going to, I'm going to
jump a little bit ahead because
I want you to think about this.
You may be saying, but I'm not a leader.
100%.
You are. 100%.
You are. God has called you
to be his child and disciple
and a light to the world.
And I don't know about you, but that
is a definition of a leader. It's someone
who represents Christ to the world.
So if you want to kind of scoot out of
this and say, Hey, I'm not a leader.
I don't have to listen to this. You are.
So guys, start with you.
And then now we're getting
ready to see how the king
begins to now encourage, right?
So the king could have recognized the
sin, repented of it, and it would have
changed his life, but he decided to
make it a standard in Nineveh, right.
He sets this decree.
We know about decrees.
You either do them or you're
probably going to get killed.
I mean, that's really what it was.
He was like, we're going to do this.
And so we understand again, great leaders.
Don't just live a model life.
They challenge those around
them to live it as well.
And I'm going to claim that quote,
cause I didn't find any where I wrote
it down so you can hashtag me later.
Um, but here's what I would
encourage you with this.
I started thinking through this,
I could spend my weeks up here.
Only talking about the way
in which I live my faith out.
And so as a church, just so you know
this, we are a church that exists
to inspire hope, by helping people,
by helping you, discover your purpose
through relationship with Jesus.
I could sit here and talk
about how I do that every week.
But I don't know about those around
here that are consistently here.
I'm consistently, I feel like
challenging you here, challenging
new and group and challenging you
in individual conversations to help
other people discover their purpose
through relationship with Jesus.
I'm reminded as a leader.
I can't just sit up here and talk
about my stories and about what I do.
I can model that and that's important,
but I need to make sure that I am
challenging you and I am helping you.
I'm walking with you and then encouraging
you to walk with other people.
And one of the coolest things that
I would say in my wife's in here
now, so I can say this, um, Couple
months ago, she just felt of the Lord
that she needs to lead a D group of
women, a discipleship group of women.
And she's never done this.
She's taught Bible studies and she's
never done it. But she just, she had
a conviction and you know what she
realized in her life, that was what
was holding her back from obedience.
And she had conviction.
So until she committed to inviting some
women in to this deeper discipleship,
she knew that she was not in the right
relationship that she
needed to be with the Lord.
And she stepped out in faith
and she's figuring this out.
And so what is she doing?
She's not only modeling it,
but she's teaching these
ladies to now do that again.
That's what this king is reminding me of.
This is.
And just so you know, go to Jesus's life.
He does the same thing.
Where does she's in this story?
So I don't want to discount Jesus
is ultimately our model, right?
So let's, let's keep jumping into this.
Um, I, I think it's so important
when we look at this, right?
His first decree is to fast.
And so we'll look at this just briefly.
It says by order of the king
and his Nobles, no person or
animal, and this is crazy.
I still don't know the details of this.
Why would you not have animals?
But I would say this, he wanted
to cover every base, every base.
I mean, he's saying I'm not going
to leave any stone unturned.
And I think that's interesting
with this king, right?
So he says no person or animal or
herd or flock should taste anything at all.
They must not eat, drink,
or eat or drink water.
Right?
So this first decree is to proclaim
a fast and what is a fast, right?
So he's talked about it right to
it's an eat food or water, but a
fasting could be something different.
So I want to kind of give
a broad version of it.
Fasting is to give up a need or a
desire of the flesh for a greater need
for the soul or spirit, or the spirit.
Someone mentioned this again to
fast is to give up a need or desire
of the flesh for a greater need.
For the soul or the spirit.
So I I'll just give you a great example.
Whenever I was new in my faith and
I had actually came on staff as just
an executive assistant to my pastor.
Um, he was said, Hey, I'm going to fast
for the first 30 days of this new year.
And I said, why are you fasting?
I was kind of laughing.
And I was like, where's that talk
about that in the word I'm still as
new my faith, he kind of laughed.
He sent me a text message.
That was a mile long of all the times in
the word where it talked about fasting
and that we should fast consistently
and why we should fast and how they
fasted and all these different things.
And I'm like, oh my gosh,
fasting is important.
Why is fasting important?
And so we're going to see
why fasting is important.
Think about this when
we fast, it causes us
that every single time, the
water we're fasting for him.
So take food.
I think a food 24 7 all the time, every
time I think about food, I'm thinking
about the reason why I'm fasting.
And I'm asking for the Lord
to give me help to be able to
sustain this fast, to be able to
think on that topic or whatever.
So let's think about these people.
Most people where some of the
old Testament times they spent
the majority of their day.
Working for food and water, right.
Working for food and water.
They were just trying to get
something so that they could survive.
At the moment.
They couldn't have food and water.
There was no need to work.
They had more time to consider and
reflect on the sin in their heart.
And every single time they thought
about, man, I need to be getting water.
No, I don't need it.
Why do I need it?
Because of my sin and I needed, it gave
them time away from their day to day.
And this fasting and praying
and seeking the Lord.
Wow.
Like that's why he made this first decree.
It's so important, right?
We, we get distracted, you know
this, but I think it's so important.
What the purpose of Fasten is.
And David and his prayer in Psalm
1 39, 23 through 24, says this,
search me God, and know my heart,
test me and know my concerns.
See if there's any offensive way
in me and lead me in everlasting.
So whenever I think about the purpose
of a fast it's time to reflect, it's
time to spend, I spend time with
the Lord to search our hearts and
whatever God reveals we turn from.
See, that's why the king was asking
for them to fast was for them to
really consider what God was saying.
Hey, in these days, you're
going to be perishing.
If you don't respond.
And he was desperate.
So his second decree was to
put on the sackcloth, right?
So again, we see that this is
display of, of, in the flesh of
what is happening on the inside.
So a sign of mourning and repentance,
but then he makes this third decree.
And I want you guys to read this with me.
He says, it's in the bottom
of first aid, verse eight.
It says, furthermore, both people and
animals must be covered with sackcloth and
everyone must call out earnestly to God.
Somebody tell me what they
believe the word earnestly.
Means, sincerely.
Yup.
That's exactly what it means.
Sincerely or seriously with
sincere intense conviction.
Here's why I think it's important.
He uses this word.
And so if you weren't here, I'm going
to try to summarize this in like three
minutes, because I don't want to go long.
But we talked about whenever Jonah
was in the belly of the fish,
that his prayer was very selfish.
And if you haven't read it this way,
I want you to go back and read it.
There's a lot of eyes and there's not
very many, Hey Lord, forgive me for
not helping the sellers, you know,
sailors, because I don't say that.
Right.
The sailors, um, come to Jesus Lord.
I'm not worried about the Ninevites
that I'm not going to reach.
I'm only worried about myself and
my condition and all the things.
So I saw his prayer of repentance
is like a half-hearted repentance.
And again, God accepted it, but
I think the king is modeling
what true repentance is.
Sincerity sincerity of the understanding
that for us is if we don't repent,
it's not just trying to get out of
punishment is to really experience.
God's grace and mercy, and really call
our lives that we actually understand
why we sinned, not just that we were
going to get punished for our sin.
Right.
So whenever they sincerely and I'll go on
here a little bit more, so says earnestly
to the God and each must turn from his
evil ways and from his wrong doing.
So he was very specific in this.
He wanted to make sure that they
understood the true elements
of what it means to repent.
So he says, basically searching
your heart to call out to God
and turning from your evil ways.
And again, I think he's using this, I
believe in when I say the King's using
this, really the writer of Jonah is
using this as saying, Hey, let me give
you a clear picture of what it is for.
To truly repent of your sin and recognize
your need for God's grace and mercy.
And that it is insincerity, not just
trying to repent and move on with life.
And so I think it's easy for us.
And those of you who maybe have been
saved a little bit longer to become
numb to what true repentance is.
And so why do I say that?
Probably because I have at times say,
I don't think we realized that when
we sin against God, we are really.
Like in this idea is it's
not God's best for you.
So when you send God's looking and saying,
you miss the opportunity to experience
my best for you any, and really, if you
think about it, you're grieving him.
And I think about this when my
kids, my older kids, especially
they know what's right.
They know what's right.
And they choose wrong.
Breaks me, because I don't know
why they're choosing that when
they know what's right, God is
looking at you as His child.
And when we sin against
him, it's breaking him.
And he's saying, that's
not my best for you.
That's not the best for you.
Why are you choosing that?
And so in sincerity, when we were
pinned, we recognize we hurt the Lord.
Jesus.
He doesn't desire that force.
He wants what's best for him.
And so as a believer, it's hard sometimes
when we had the head knowledge of
what we're , but we don't get it into
the heart of what true repentance is.
And this king displays what it looks like.
So why, and this is the important part.
I think we need to think about why did
the king end up repenting this way?
Which is that short message, right.
And 40 days Nineveh will be demolished.
And I think verse nine kind of tells us
the reason why is because he's realizing
this who knows rather than living
it up for the next several days, who
knows maybe God will turn and relent.
He may turn from His burning anger.
So we will not perish.
You know, he didn't know he had no
clue whether God was going to do
that, but he had to one of two ways
to go either to God or away from God.
When we have sin in our lives and we
recognize it, we have two ways to go.
We can either go to God or when go away
from God and he chose the right way.
And let me share this.
And maybe he knew Proverbs 28, 13.
I don't think he probably did,
but Proverbs 28 13 says this, the
one who conceals his sin will not
prosper, but one who confesses and
renounces them will find mercy.
So this king found exactly
what that verse said.
He found mercy, he was willing
to do whatever it takes
to see God would release.
How desperate are we to
be forgiven of our sin?
Are we desperate enough to put on
sackcloth and ashes publicly display that
we're broken and in need of a savior?
I would say at times, guys, I
would say I'm great at that.
But at many times I don't, I just
want to say a prayer and move on.
So I'm not telling you today to
go put on sackcloth and ashes and
maybe you need to, but I think that
this king tells us that it's hard.
Not necessarily an outward issue
because we can come to church and
seemed like we had all together.
It's a heart issue.
It's an inward issue.
So you can put on the sackcloth and
ashes, but if you don't have the
inward conviction of what your sin is,
you're really missing the point of it.
That's the last thing is, is the Kings
model of repentance pays off, right?
Verse 10 says God saw their actions that
they had turned from their evil ways.
And so God relented from the
disaster he had threatened them with.
And he did not.
How do we know that they truly
repented God relented, God relented.
And I don't know about you guys just
kind of say this, that D do you celebrate
whenever somebody repents, do you
celebrate whenever somebody gives her
life to Jesus, do you celebrate even with
yourself at times when you repent and
you recognize the Lord's forgives you?
I think we should.
I think we should be.
We should look at it as,
as this is a big deal.
When there's a sin in your life
or something that is not valuable
for you and you turn from it, you
should celebrate with praise and
Thanksgiving to a God who gloriously
loves you and wants to forgive you.
We should celebrate with one
another, rather than judging one.
That maybe your sense different than mine.
We should celebrate.
When one center in the Bible talks
about that there's angels in heaven
who celebrate my pastor told me this.
When I gave my life to Christ, I walked
down the front and he said, I want you to
know today there's angels in heaven that
are celebrating, throwing a party because
of one center who repented in that shoe,
man, that was surprise what guys that
happens every day that we were paying.
Cause that center they
talk about, it's not.
One time giving your life to Jesus.
Cause that's an obviously to
celebrate, but it's daily repentance.
We should celebrate
because God forgave us.
Wow.
Like we should celebrate.
So I think of this and I'm like, I
was reading this and I was like, I'm
celebrating right now for the 120,000
that repented and God forgave him.
This is awesome.
This is great.
And so I want to ask this question.
Do you ever wonder if what you do matter.
And if you're questioning saying
men, if what I do as a follower
of Jesus, does it matter?
What does I do as a non-polar Jesus?
Does it matter?
Absolutely.
Because they chose to
respond the correct way.
It mattered for eternity and
for them and their destruction.
And it matters for us as well.
So you may have the same
question that I have.
How do we know what true
repentance looks like for them?
It was easy when I say it was
easy because after it was at 40
days, they didn't get destroyed.
So the know, Hey, my root,
my repentance was real.
And, and for you guys, you may say, how do
I know if the way I'm repenting is real?
And, and again, I'm telling you this.
I had asked myself the same question.
This is why I'm here to
answer those questions.
Cause I had to ask that same.
The Bible says this in Luke three
eight, it says, therefore, produce
fruit consistent with repentance.
So there's proof of true repentance.
So someone give me, I want, I'd
love somebody to give me what
would be proof of true repentance.
Give me maybe an example of what
proof of true repentance would be.
There you go.
Yeah, there's a couple, right?
I mean, I think, I think you can, you
can begin to say that it's practical.
It's simple to see like
there's life change, right?
It's not just words, but
it's response and action.
And so I started thinking of, you
know, so the, when we talk about the.
Of true repentance.
So the fruit of the spirit, we
should know the fruit of the spirit.
And I start thinking about this are
the fruit of the spirit is love, joy,
peace, patience, kindness, goodness,
faithfulness, gentleness self-control.
And it says the law there's, uh, the
law is not against such things, right?
So when we see these fruits of the spirit
getting stronger and more consistent in
lives, we'll see proof of life change.
Now I started thinking about this,
many of our sins fall into the
category of the opposites of these.
So walk with me a little bit in this.
The opposite of love is hate.
The opposite of joy is what sorrow,
which actually that's not too bad, but
sometimes godly sorrow, the opposite
of peace, fear, opposite of patience,
not patient, the opposite of kindness.
You know, I dunno, greed.
Okay.
That's good.
One opposite of goodness, man.
Right?
Opposite of faithfulness, unfaithful,
opposite of gentleness, angry, harsh
opposite of self-control uncontrolled.
I mentioned this to you guys, because
I think at times we want to know
what is proof that I have given my
life to Jesus and that I'm growing
my faith for is of the spirit.
W what is, what is proof that I, I'm
not living the way and I'm living
against God's God's will for my life
and, and the best for my life whenever
I'm doing the opposite of these things.
So I'm telling you, I'm this guy, I
love that two plus two equals four.
I'm a math guy, because it's always four
and don't tell me it's three or six.
Okay.
I'm not that guy.
It's four.
So sometimes with God, there are
these variables of like, we can't.
Get that finite number, but I
do believe when it comes to true
followers of Jesus, there is fruit.
The Bible clearly says
there is a response.
So when it comes to true repentance,
you will know if you've truly repented.
If you are turning and, and choosing a
different way of living now, do we all
know at times we sin and we fall short?
Absolutely.
But conviction brings us back.
We don't hang out in it.
Right.
That's where the spirit of God.
So I, again, I look at this story.
I'm trying to end this way here
is that the king gave us a model
of what repentance is, right?
So he was a leader and he led out and
what it looked like to repent, and then
he challenged people to repent, right.
And we know that God received it for us.
What do we do to take, what
do we take with this one?
Every one of us is a leader.
Every one of us is a leader model.
It experienced true repentance in
your heart and challenge others.
So I'll go back to the question
I said earlier, and my wife, she
wasn't in here when I said this, but
what does this text say about God?
I think it continues to say
this, that God desires for
everyone to come to faith in him.
Give us a second chance.
He wants us all to be in a
right relationship with him.
I'm telling you that God loves you.
He loves you.
And his name is Jesus.
His name is Jesus.
And why does he get the right.
To determine whether we can
be forgiven of our sins or not
because he paid the price here.
Here's the thing.
Apart from Christ, if we're in sin,
we'll pay for us in one day, absolutely.
100% we'll pay for our sin, but because
Christ came, he is the replacement of
the punishment that we've reserved.
He got that punishment for us.
So when we accept, when we repent,
we're accepting Christ's payment for
our sin rather than taking an owner.
So.
And when we reject Christ, we say, we
will ultimately take that punishment,
whatever God gives on ourselves.
I don't know about you guys, but I'm
so glad that God did that because I
know I'll never be good enough to be
able to not get punishment for my sin.
And so Christ paid the
ultimate price for me.
So when we think about this, God gives
us the right, this second chance where
he'll relent and he won't punish us
because of what Christ did on the
cross, if we'll repent of our sins.
But here's the thing we, we, we don't
have to be, I would say this, we
are not forced into this decision.
There's so many times we'll
just say, we'll wait on the
Lord to make it right with us.
Now we have to make this choice.
So when I ask this question, just as
we go into a time of invitation, And
I share this every week because I want
to be clear as possible too many times.
And, and maybe I'm, I'm, I've
been a part of this too many
times when it comes invitation.
Everybody's like, I don't
know what this time is for.
Is it for this person?
Is it just for the worship
band to play one more song?
Cause they love music so much.
Yes, no, I'm joking.
Um, invitation is a time to take
everything and I hope God touch you
something and say, Lord, what is.
What is it that I need
to apply to my life?
You know, is there a sin in my
life that I need to repent of?
Is there something in my path,
my life that is not valuable for
me, that I needed to turn from?
Is there someone I need to invite
into my life for accountability
to help me overcome this sin?
Is it time for me to fully surrender
to God, to give my life to Jesus?
Maybe that's you today.
Maybe you have not given
your life to Jesus.
And you're asking the question.
Maybe you don't know if
you have, where do you go?
Talk to somebody and, and I built
enough of a relationship with
the majority of you in this room.
I hope, um, that I'm going to
be back there during invitation.
And my goal is to just talk with you.
I'm not here to condemn you.
I'm not here to call you out.
I'm not going to put you up publicly just
to make you, Hey, this guy just did this.
I want to help, you know, Jesus.
I want to help you take a
next step in your faith then.
Do you really mean that?
Absolutely.
100.
Even if you don't know me very
well, I desire to help you take
a next step because I think every
person in this room, every person
has a next step closer to Jesus.
And if I can be a part of it,
please let me be a part of it.
Don't leave today without asking God
during this time of invitation, what it is
that you need to do surrender and say yes.
And tell someone, Hey, today,
I've committed to this.
Hey, today I've repented to this.
Hey, today.
Allow it to be a public profession
to God, and we'll continue to see
life change all in your lives.
But here's the greatest one.
I'm gonna say this last thing because
of your repentance and life of living,
it you'll change other people's lives.
I'm telling you want to present.
God wants to use you to help
other people come to know him and
receive the same grace and mercy.
You've bring.
So let's pray, Lord, Jesus, Lord.
We love you.
And we thank you so much for your word
and Jonah Lord, where you have taught us.
You've taught us what it means to truly
repent Lord, where we will lay down
every, um, thing that Lord hinders us.
Every sin that hinders us Lord,
and we become broken before
you publicly and inwardly.
And we say, Lord, we are desperate
for your mercy and grace.
Lord, no matter if we've been believers
for 50 years or we haven't given
our lives to you, Lord that grace
and mercy is there every single day.
If we will repent, which means
this Lord, if we'll turn from our
sin, if we'll recognize, whatever
we're doing is not valuable for us.
And we begin to say what you have for us
is more valuable, the right way of living.
So Lord, I pray today that every
one of us considers what it is.
That maybe we are holding back from you
and saying, Lord, no, we feel justified in
this to keep Lord, may they surrender it?
May I surrender it?
And Lord, if it's today, someone that
doesn't know you or where they just need
to fully repent of their sins and truly
trust in you for the first time, Lord, I
pray that you send them Lord to come talk
to me during this time of invitation.
Lord, I just pray that they do not let
another day go by before they give their
lives to you and recognize their need for.
Lord, we just celebrate what you're
doing in this church and what
you're going to continue to do.
3, 2, 1 of our hearts and minds orders.
We take the next right
step towards you, Lord.
We love you.
And we pray this in
your head and the name.
Amen.
If you'll stand with us as we worship.